so in the previous two videos we've
learned about interfaces so it's now
time to confirm our understanding of
that by going through a challenge so let
me paste in the challenge and we'll take
it from there
and in case you're wondering this is
future Tim again making a change to make
this a little bit more understandable
because the original version of the
course I found that some students found
the challenge text to be a little bit
confusing so hopefully this will clear
that up so let's go through what I've
just pasted it in so we need to create a
simple interface
now I'm suggesting you name it
savable or i savable
now that interface allows an object to
be saved to some sort of storage medium
my tip is to use an ArrayList for that
now the exact type of medium isn't known
to the interface nor to the classes that
implement it so the interface will just
specify two methods one to return an
ArrayList of values to be saved and the
other to populate the objects field from
an ArrayList as a parameter so you want
to create a few sample classes that
implement your savable interface now
we've used the idea of a game with
players and monsters but you can create
any type of classes that you want here
you want to also override the two streak
method for each of your classes so that
they can easily be printed to enable the
program to be tested easier so in the
main class which is this one write a
method that takes an object that
implements the interface as a parameter
and saves quote and quote saves the
value in other words it calls a
method defined in the interface now we
haven't covered java io yet so the
method you write should just print the
values to the screen now also in this
main class write another method that
restores the values to a savable object
in other words it calls a method from
the interface for populating fields as
described above and again we're not
going to use Java file IO here instead
you're gonna use the read values method
I'm gonna paste in here shortly to
simulate getting values from a file
and by doing that it allows you to type
as many values as your classwork
and returns an ArrayList in case you're
wondering there's a whole Java io
section later in this course we can get
to use real files and do file processing
but for now we're just simulating that
with this challenge I did mention this
read values method so I'm going to paste
that in and that's available in the
resources section of this video along
with this description when you pasted in
make sure you paste it outside of the
main method it's going to be down there
so I'm going to paste that in and you
may need to accept some imports as well
and it's Java dot util and again that
read values method the purpose of that
as you can see up here is to simulate
getting values from a file that allows
you to type as many values as your class
requires and then returns whatever
you've typed as an ArrayList all right
so that your challenge pause the video
now and see how you go off the challenge
when you're ready to come back and check
out my solution come back and we'll go
through that step by step pause the
video now
Okay, how did you get on?
Did you figure it out?
So let's make a start.
So the first thing we need to do
is create the simple interface
that allows an object to be saved
to some sort of storage medium.
So we're gonna open up here,
and create that.
I'm gonna create the interface and
I'm gonna call that one saveable.
So gonna use the i again, ISaveable.
Saveable and of course it's going
to be an interface and not a class.
And what we need is to go back to the main
method again and just specify two methods.
One to return an array list
of values to be saved and
the other to populate the objects'
fields from the array list.
So, what we're going
to do in an interface,
the first one is gonna
be an ArrayList.
And I'll call that write.
Obviously that's going to save write the
data and the other one's gonna be read.
So it's gonna be void,
doesn't need to return anything.
Read ArrayList of String which
will be the same values.
So, that's gonna be the two methods that
ultimately we're going to have to write
the code for, and the class that
actually implements this interface.
So, what we're gonna do is create some
classes that actually use this interface.
Well, we'll start off creating one,
we'll actually create one called Player.
But again, you could have actually created
any sort of class that you wanted to,
but we'll call this one Player, so Player
is actually going to implement Saveable,
so implements ISaveable, like so.
Notice that we're getting an error in
there because we haven't implemented that.
So we'll need a few things here for
our class.
Get rid of some of these spaces here,
looks better.
So we'll start off with a name, a name of
the player, how many hit points he's got.
Let's also add an integer for strength,
how much strength the player's
actually got and also a weapon.
We'll just have a string that
contain the name of the weapon that
this particular player has got.
Let's add a constructor and
the constructor is going
to add three parameters.
We'll actually add them all in the weapon.
We'll actually just hard
code the weapon like that.
Again a lot of this doesn't really matter
because this is not really directly part
of the challenge.
We're just doing, implementing a class so
that we can actually use this
interface and implement
the functions that we talked about,
the methods I should say that
is set up in the interface.
All right and start weapon.
Let's just call that a sword.
We'll just hard code that.
We could have used that as
a parameter if we wanted to.
So next we want some getters.
And getters and setters so
I'm just gonna set up the getters and
setters for everything.
So I'm going to getters and setters and
just for all of the fields so.
So we can access those if we need to.
So, that's a very basic class, and
the last thing we wanna do here
before we move on to the write and
read methods, which are part of the
interface, is we wanna override toString.
So, I'm gonna use toString.
And it's asking there,
what do we wanna do?
Well, we wanna return all of those,
so let's just do that.
And you can see it's actually
automatically added all those for
us nicely, so
we don't actually have to write any code.
It did all of that for us so
I'm just gonna leave this to default.
You could change it if you wanted to and
get rid of the bracket or
do something like that.
Our purpose is this is gonna be fun,
this will work well.
Okay, so let's get IntelliJ now
to create the stubs for us.
That's the empty methods.
So then we'll actually fill them in.
So to do that, we go there,
we select Implement Methods.
And we select both of them.
You can see now that the class,
as far as IntelliJ is concerned,
Java's consent is now valid,
because we've implemented those methods.
But, of course, at this stage those
methods don't actually do anything.
So, even though it's valid,
it's not very useful,
because it's not actually doing anything.
So, the write methods, the order of
that's going to just insert the value,
or the values of all the members that
are needed to save the state of our player
into the array list, and then return it.
So any member variables that are not
strings will need to be string.
You'll see that in the code shortly.
And the read method's gonna
receive in a containing
the values that have been previously
written for it's write method and
use them to recreate the state
of our member of variables.
To any values for non-string members also
have to be cast to the appropriate type.
Let's go ahead and
do the write method first.
So I'm going to actually start
by creating an array list and
we'll kinda use this format
from now on for our code.
We're gonna start with the List string.
So we're just gonna use
the generic interface list
whatever way of using a list of any type,
array lists et cetera.
And we're going to call it
values = new ArrayList.
So, again that's a good format to do for
the reasons that I uploaded
in the previous video because we only
need to change this is one spot here,
we'd have to continually go back and
change it here as well.
It really just opens it up and
makes the code easy to understand.
And looking back at there
with our interface,
let's also make that a list,
just for maximum flexibility.
This would be a really good idea
to actually do it this way and
we can actually save that as well and
we'll change this to also be a list.
That's maximum flexibility
because it means in the future,
now that this interface has been created,
we can use any type of list.
We don't have to use
a specific type of list and
I'll show you how that
works later in the course.
So that's our list there.
So, we're now using in our List method.
I wanted to actually change
this definition as well,
noticing it's complaining now
because we changed the definition.
So, I'll change that to a list like so,
and
I'll also change this to a list
cuz it's actually returning lists.
Okay, so moving on.
So, we've created our values.
That's what's going to be in there,
and we'll return values.
And all we need to do
is actually add them.
So, to add them it's as
simple as typing values.add.
We can use an index position if you wanna
guarantee where there going to be saved so
we'll start with 0,
this.name values.add 1.
And then we're going to cast this,
we're going to add.
Actually we're gonna do a little
trick which we can actually
quickly convert this to a string by
just putting "" + this.hitPoints).
That's just one way of doing it and
that will actually effectively make that
a string, which we need for
to actually put in this array list.
values.add 2, the same for
strength, this.strength.
And values.add 3, this.weapon.
So that's the four parameters or the four
fields, I should say, in this class,
that's we'll actually now
save to an array list.
And in the last line, of course,
the return actually saves that,
or return should say that list
also can be used elsewhere.
So in terms of reading the list,
what's actually very similar,
we can actually come through here and
write some code in our read method.
And what we wanna do first is actually
test to see whether the actual list that
we received, make sure that that's
actually a valid list in terms
of whether it's null or not and
obviously it's got some data in it.
So we can actually do that,
and one way we can do that,
we can put if(savedValues is now equal to
null & saveValues.size is greater than 0.
So we know that its not null and
we've got at least one entry,
we're probably on the right track.
And we'll do this.name = savedValues.get,
the entry element(0).
And this.hitPoints.
Now we can set it up by using the integer.
The class Integer.parseInt
(savedValues.get(1)).
So we're just converting that cuz we know
that it's a number because in the right
method above we wrote it as a number.
We just put a double quote to
actually make it a string.
But essentially it's still only
a number in the sense that only
a numeric number was actually added,
and the same for
strength = Integer.parseInt, and
it's gonna be savedValues.get(2).
And then the last one,
weapon = savedValues.get(3) and
notice also that we've had no,
we've just used a generic list here.
You parse a generic list and
because again,
the list is the interface its got a .get.
What will happen is even though
we're actually parsing an ArrayList,
ArrayList is still implementing
the List interface.
This code will still work, the .size will
still work, the .get will work because
the actual object that was
passed will still be known.
It's a list but
also an array list if that makes sense,
so we'll be actually using arrays
to send the data to this method,
but all these general functions
based on a list to work as well, and
that's one of the great reasons
to use the interface as well.
Okay, so that's our basic player
class there, we gotta basic class,
we've also implemented the two methods,
write and read.
So that we can actually both write
basically the state of this object out and
also we can read it, and then retrieve it,
and then update the values back.
So, it's sort of like saving
a player's character.
So, you'd use something like
this ultimately in a game,
if you were actually saving
the state of the player.
So that the game could be
loaded at some future point.
So moving now back to the main class,
we've done that,
so we've created some sample classes
that implement the Saveable interface.
Well we actually done one at the moment,
we've done Player.
We overrode the toString for
that class, as you saw.
And we also have implemented those two
methods as well which we talked about
in the interface.
So what we wanna do now is rather
method that takes an object,
implements the interface as
a parameter and saves the value.
So we're going to actually
create that method here.
So to do that, I'm gonna type
public static void saveObject.
And it's going to be ISaveable is
the parameter that's passed to it.
ISaveable objectToSave.
And we'll talk about this shortly.
Then we're going to write a loop for
int i=0.
i less than objectToSave.write.size,
i++ and
we're gonna code a message to Saving
+ objectToSave.write .get(i)
+ to storage device.
Now looking at that it might take a little
bit to think about what's actually going
on here but
what we're doing is we're actually
passing as a parameter the ISaveable
using the ISaveable interface.
And by doing that we can actually use
any object that is using this interface,
that has implemented this interface.
So we can be quite generic.
We can use this method for saving any
type of class, which is very powerful.
And what we're doing is we're cycling
through all the entries using the .write.
In other words,
going back to our .write class again,
you can see from memory what that .write
was doing was creating that array list,
one entry in the array list for each item.
As you can see that it's
actually working there.
So, there should be four
entries in here which will be
nine hit points strength on this weapon.
So in this method here what it's doing
is it's going through each object,
cuz it's using .write,
which returns the entire list if you will.
Figuring out what the size is, and
then going through each item and
what it should say is saving and
then actually show us the actual
object name into storage details.
And I'll actually show
you that on the screen.
So again, the power of interface is there.
Then the other way, contrasting that,
we need a load object as well.
So the load object does the opposite,
and that enables us, unsurprisingly,
to load the data back.
So load the object, so
public static void loadObject.
That's gonna be an ISaveable again,
objectToLoad.
And we're gonna start,
we're gonna actually create
an ArrayList values = and
it's going to be readValues.
And remember we wrote that method up here,
readValues.
And the readValues, of course enables
you to simulate getting that data
from somewhere, but in this case
we're just going to top that data in.
You will see that a little bit later.
So we've got the data, and then we just
need the objectToLoad.read(values).
So it's looking for the .read method,
which again all objects that implement
aside from what we must have, so
in this case what we're doing is,
we've got the data which we've typed.
And we're going back into the player
object is gonna then call the read method
and extract the necessary data out and
basically save it in the object values for
each of those entries of
the name the weapon et cetera.
So again load objects, save objects should
be pretty simple if you think about it,
if you're looking at that in figuring out
what it's trying to do in terms of using
the .write function to determine
the size and then getting here.
Cuz this is returning a list so you can
say that up .write returns a list so
we're using that capability to actually
then retrieve the particular entries we
want and to cycle through them all.
But of course the load object has to get
the data ultimately from somewhere we were
simulating that just by
entering it from the keyboard.
So what we can now do is we can
actually test this a little bit more so
we go back up to the top of
the code now in our main method.
And what we should have to do is type
Player tim = new Player("Tim, 10, 15).
And remember that was if we go back
to player again and have a look, 10,
15 and the two parameters for
hitPoints and strength.
So strength the three parameters are name,
So that's the three parameters and just
to confirm that we'll put tim.toString.
We'll actually output that on the screen.
Now we'll actually save the object so
saveObject(tim).
We'll have a look at the output for that.
Then we'll change something,
where tim.setHitPoints(8), so
let's change the hit points.
Now put tim again, and
we can do that by default.
Remember, you don't need to put .toString,
that will be assumed if we don't enter it.
So we'll do that, and tim.setWeapon,
the old Stormbringer, saveObject(tim).
Let's load the object, tim,
and then print out tim.
So let's actually have
a look at running that code,
just make sure that it actually
does work and do the right thing.
So okay, saving Tim to storage,
saving 10 to storage.
So Tim was the name,
remember, the first one?
Now making more space so you can see this.
So player and that's actually a string
method showing this, so the name is Tim.
He points 10 at streak 15 and
weapon's a sword.
And you can see there's saving Tim.
So it's going through each entry basically
from our write method and saving them.
So that's still working okay.
Next, we actually change the hit points.
The hit points to 8.
And you can see that had been changed.
Then we saved 10 to storage device, saved
8 to storage device, and saved 15 as well.
And saved Stormbringer because
of course we set that out there.
So that's got us down to, after the save,
we then use the loadObject.
And of course if you remember loadObject,
that uses the readValues.
We have to actually type some data in.
So we could actually try entering
that data in there, so let's do that.
So we go down here and
actually just type in 1.
Just enter Brian, 1, 25, 1, 11.
And one we'll put gun.
Then 0 to quit cuz we've done now.
And here we've got player name='Brian',
hitPoints=25, strength=11, weapon='Gun'.
So you can see that the load values
method is working nicely and
that was also the last line of
the output that was actually executed.
So this video's getting quite long so
I'm gonna stop here now and
in the next video we're gonna
continue the challenge.
We're going to implement a monster
class that works the same way and
implements the same ISaveable
interface and goes through that.
So, I'll see you in the next video.